README.md, before:

# MDContactNetworks
Library for computing dynamic non-covalent contact networks in proteins throughout MD Simulation


## File format

MDContactNetworks is compatible with .nc and .dcd file formats for MD trajectories.


## Running the Code

The code is organized into two steps:

### 1. Computing non-covalent contacts in a protein throughout every frame of a MD Simulation fragment
   
   __Input:__ 

	Required Arguments:

	   TOP - Path to topology
	   TRAJ - Path to simulation trajectory fragment
	   OUTPUT_DIR - Path of output directory
	   INTERACTION_TYPES - User specifies what type of non-covalent interaction to compute using the following flags. 

		   -sb, Salt bridges
		   -pc, Pi-cation 
		   -ps, Pi-stacking
		   -ts, T-stacking
		   -vdw, Van Der Waals
		   -hb, Hydrogen Bonds
		   -lhb, Ligand Hydrogen Bonds

		   Hydrogen bonds are automatically stratified to following subtypes

		   -hbbb, Backbone-backbone hydrogen bonds
		   -hbsb, Backbone-sidechain hydrogen bonds
		   -hbss, Sidechain-sidechain hydrogen bonds
		   -wb, Water-mediated hydrogen bond
		   -wb2, Extended water-mediated hydrogen bond
		   -hlb, Ligand-backbone hydrogen bonds
		   -hls, Ligand-sidechain hydrogen bonds
		   -lwb, Ligand water-mediated hydrogen bond
		   -lwb2, Ligand extended water-mediated hydrogen bond


	Optional Arguments:

		-cores <NUM_CORES> User can specify number of cpu cores to run computations on

		-solv <SOLVENT_ID> Specify solvent identifier in simulation other than the default of TIP3

		-chain <CHAIN_ID> Specify specific chain of protein to compute non-covalent contacts

		-ligand <LIGAND_NAME> Specify name of ligand if computing hydrogen bonds involving ligand

   
   __Output:__ List of non-covalent contacts of specified type for each frame of simulation fragment 

   __Examples:__

	python dynamic_contact_networks.py TOP.pdb TRAJ.nc -cores 12 -solv IP3 -chain A -ligand EJ4 -itype -hb -lhb


### 2. Visualizing dynamic contact networks

   __Input:__ Directory containing non-covalent contacts computed for each fragment of simulation

   
   __Output:__ JSON file that has keys representing interactions between a pair of atoms. Values being the time points that the interaction was formed in simulation. Formatted to be visualized with flareplots (https://gpcrviz.github.io/flareplot/)

Commit message:

Switched chain_id to any selection id for querying. PSF and any VMD format for topology and trajectory works. Memory is all good. Only thing left is hdf5 storage for space efficiency, help commands, and geometric criteria to be tunable:

README.md, after:

# MDContactNetworks
Library for computing dynamic non-covalent contact networks in proteins throughout MD Simulation


## File format

MDContactNetworks is compatible with all topology and trajectory file formats readable in VMD.


## Running the Code

### 1. Computing non-covalent contacts in a protein throughout every frame of a MD Simulation fragment
   
   __Input:__ 

	Required Arguments:

	   TOP - Path to topology
	   TRAJ - Path to simulation trajectory fragment
	   OUTPUT_DIR - Path of output directory
	   INTERACTION_TYPES - User specifies what type of non-covalent interaction to compute using the following flags. 

		   -sb, Salt bridges
		   -pc, Pi-cation 
		   -ps, Pi-stacking
		   -ts, T-stacking
		   -vdw, Van Der Waals
		   -hb, Hydrogen Bonds
		   -lhb, Ligand Hydrogen Bonds

		   Hydrogen bonds are automatically stratified to following subtypes

		   -hbbb, Backbone-backbone hydrogen bonds
		   -hbsb, Backbone-sidechain hydrogen bonds
		   -hbss, Sidechain-sidechain hydrogen bonds
		   -wb, Water-mediated hydrogen bond
		   -wb2, Extended water-mediated hydrogen bond
		   -hlb, Ligand-backbone hydrogen bonds
		   -hls, Ligand-sidechain hydrogen bonds
		   -lwb, Ligand water-mediated hydrogen bond
		   -lwb2, Ligand extended water-mediated hydrogen bond


	Optional Arguments:

		-cores <NUM_CORES> Number of cpu cores to run computations on

		-solv <SOLVENT_ID> Solvent identifier in simulation. default = "TIP3"

		-sele <SELECTION_QUERY> VMD selection query to compute contacts in specified region of protein

		-ligand <LIGAND_NAME> Resname of ligand molecule

   
   __Output:__ Tables storing non-covalent contacts. Tab delimited rows are formatted to include 
   frame index, atom labels, and interaction types. 

   __Examples:__

	python dynamic_contact_networks.py TOP.pdb TRAJ.nc -cores 12 -solv IP3 -sele "chain A and resid 100 to 160" -ligand EJ4 -itype -hb -lhb
